Let's talk about constructables, so
here's an example of a date constructor,
this is exactly the same,
this would be a call signature.
Now, it's a construct signature,
just add the word new in front of it,
this is for newables.
Anything that you can use to create
an instance, classes, of course,
are probably the first thing you think of,
right?
So here we can say MyDateConstructor
is a DateConstructor,
and I'm gonna take Date,
not new date, but literally Date.
Now, I can do this, And this is a date,
this here,
this is the interface of the class.
So this is a construct signature,
I would say this is fairly rare.
It's more common certainly
to write call signatures,
cuz anytime you have a call back,
things like that.
If you're writing higher order functions,
you're gonna end up with a call signature,
but they're no more difficult,
just remember to add the new keyword.
So another interesting
thing that has to do
with call signatures is a concept
called function overloads.
Let's imagine a scenario
where we have a form,
and, Maybe we have
a central event listener,
which is, as I understand it,
best practice, right?
So you don't have a bunch of different
event listeners to set up and
all those separate callbacks to maintain.
We can have kind of a global
event listener that dispatches
events appropriately.
And we want to handle events that
could come from a form or an iframe.
So with that, let's give it a shot and
let's think about the different
types of handlers we would need.
So a form of SubmitHandler takes
FormData as an argument, and
a MessageHandler, which would be
a post message channel, right?
Or you're communicating with an iframe.
You'd have this on message event,
and you'd pass in,
something that looks like this,
this is the type of a message handler.
So let's say we wanna have
a function that could handle both,
they could allow us to pass
as one argument, the element.
The second argument is the type, and we
kind of registered those together somehow.
So we can get an iframe,
there's an HTMLIFrameElement,
and then we can call handleMainEvent, and
if we look at the type of val:,
well, it has an any type.
And, all right, well, I don't know,
I kind of expected it to infer more here,
but we can keep going.
Cuz I think we get to the same place here,
so I'll tell you what I expected to see,
these are both single argument functions,
they return void.
So I kind of expected to see
something like FormData or
MessageEvent as an argument
with a void return type.
But it seems to have bailed, and
this is now an implicit any.
In either case, we kinda wanna allow for
two specific things that
could happen here, right?
Where I pass in my form element,
and I get a form submit handler,
or I pass in my iframe element,
and I get a message handler.
We don't wanna mix and match, we don't
want these two, or these two here, right?
We wanna have one pair on the left or
the pair on the right, and
we can accomplish this
with function overloads.
So the way this works is
we're going to create
multiple function heads,
we would call these.
So the thing to note here is these
are what we call function heads,
they don't have a body,
there's no implementation here.
We're gonna grab these two,
and we're gonna put them above
what we would call
the implementation of the function.
And we'll need a return type here,
All right, so if we look at how
we're allowed to call this now,
You see this 1 out of 2 and 2 out of 2?
Look at that,
first argument is a FormElement,
the second argument is
our form SubmitHandler.
Here's two out of two, got the iframe
element, and the message handler.
So although, the underlying implementation
of this function would technically allow
us to mix and match, right,
they're just union types.
There's nothing in this function
itself that sort of expresses any
relationship between the first and
second arguments.
What's happened is we've hidden this,
this is not callable in and
of itself, you can only call this
function through one of these two heads.
And so we've sort of limited the scope,
the combinations of what can be done here.
And so now,
this should be typed and it is,
there's a message event, but
if I were to type in, we got a form,
Look at that, it's FormData,
it switched on us,
because it knows you have to
do one pair or the other pair.
It's sort of using the first argument
to figure out the second argument.
And you can think of it almost,
when we call this function,
it's going through the various function
heads one by one to find one that matches.
But the first argument we're passing in,
and then it'll try to find one that also
matches the second argument,
and then it'll let us use that.
But if we were to delete this,
for example, so now,
there's no iframe element here.
If we were to switch back,
This doesn't exist,
you can't pass a frame in, if we were to
look at this, it's just the form element.
So you see how this
implementation of the function,
the last function head that has an actual,
like this body here.
We can't directly access that, we kind of
only access it through the heads when you
do this overloading technique.
It is a really powerful idea,
particularly because there are other
ways of doing this that just
are incredibly advanced in terms of types.
This kind of makes an approach,
what we're looking at here,
much more accessible without getting
into generics where we have types
described in terms of
other parameterized types.
You don't wanna be reaching for
that unless it's important and necessary.
One other thing I should mention here,
The types of the heads,
these being the heads,
they have to align with
the actual implementation here.
So if we were to do this, we wouldn't be
able to do this function head, right?
Each of these parameters here,
each of the function types represented by
the heads here, they have to fit
within the underlying implementation.
So once we add that back,
we should be good.
It's common,
sometimes people even do this, and
then they'll cast within
the function implementation,
knowing that they can sort of
sort out what the type should be.
If you have a wide range of things, and
you don't wanna turn this
into a crazy expanded type.
The reason it's somewhat a little bit
safer here is no one can directly
access this.
Like you have a guarantee that
if someone gets into this,
they came through one of these two heads.
So it's not the same as just
having an any out in the wild.
You have some narrow set of pathways
that someone must have taken to get into
the function.
>> Is there a reason that we
have to specify the types with
a union instead of just letting
it infer from the overload?
>> The, Typescriptive
does not infer that way, so,
I mean, that would be the reason.
It's more that the type of the function
itself is processed first,
and then the heads are checked for
compatibility with
the underlying implementation.
So I think it's sort of an order
of operations issue where the real
function comes first, and then the heads
have to be compatible with that function.
So the overloads, those heads don't really
influence the type of the function itself.
And it would also make it really kind of
hard to maintain one of these, if sort of
the arguments would sort of get altered
based on different signatures above.
You wanna get really tight about
this being well-typed, and
then you can sort of constrain different
usage patterns using the function heads.
You wouldn't wanna add
another function head, and
then everything inside
your function lights up,
because there's implicitly a new
thing that could be there.